Tony Kaizen:
What's up, my friend? This is the Life in English podcast.
I'm your host, Tony Kaizen, and in this episode, you're
going to be entertained by the legendary stand-up comedian
Dave Chappelle. Now, in this clip I'm about to play, Dave
tells a hilarious story about the first time he tried
psychedelic mushrooms. So I'm going to play the whole thing
from start to finish and then go back and explain some
keywords and phrases to make sure you understand the entire
story. And if you want to learn more about Dave Chappelle
and his work, you can check out the links in the description
of this episode. Alright? Let's get started.
Dave Chappelle:
Can't do everything! Maybe weed!
If you're gonna do something, do a little weed, smoke
some...weed... Weed is not as bad as everything else. Weed
is a background substance. I mean, you can smoke some herb
and still function. You ain't crisp...but
you'll function! Nothing higher than weed, though. I made
that mistake one time.
I...I was at a party. Some guy gave me some shit. He's like,
"Here, man, take this. It's fucking mushrooms." I took it. I
forgot all about it, you know? Then a couple of days later,
I found that shit in my pocket. I'm thinking, "Why not?" Cos
I'm thinking it's like weed, some background shit. I planned
my whole day out like it was weed.
I'll chew this shit up. Then I'll go to the barber shop, get
my hair cut, and then I'll see a movie. I
chewed it up. So far, so good. Then I was in the barbershop,
like, an hour later.
And it's funny cos I was just thinking to myself, I was
like, "Oh, *smack* *smack*, this stuff sucks!" Tastes like
athlete's foot. I feel sick, but I'm not really high.
Then I looked in the mirror. I saw the barber's reflection,
man.
It looked like...it looked like a big penis was cutting my
hair.
I freaked out! I started talking to myself, "Dave, calm
down. You're on drugs.
This is what drugs do. Okay, you know that there was no
way...that
a penis can cut hair." Boy, I started freaking out, man!
I just couldn't take it anymore. I jumped out of the chair.
Half my hair was cut, I didn't (even) care! I didn't. I just
gave a barber a handful of money. It was weird - the balls
opened up.
Anyway, I...I ran home, man.
I ran home as fast as I could. I was trippin! Trippin! I
looked at the clock. It was 02:42. I was like, "Damn, 02:42!
I gotta sober up. I've never been this high this early!" I
took a shower.
I was still high. I said, "Maybe music will do the trick!" I
listened to every CD I had.
I was still high.
"Exercise! That's what I'll do." I ran around the block four
times, still high. Took a nap, woke up, fucked up.
I looked at the clock. It was 02:43! I said, "Goddamn!"
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, my friend, like I always say, do not feel bad if
you didn't get the whole idea or you didn't understand every
single word, cos now we're going to go back and listen to
the story little by little while I explain some keywords and
phrases to make sure you understand everything. So let's do
it.
Dave Chappelle:
Can't do everything! Maybe weed!
If we gotta do something, do a little weed, smoke
some...weed... Weed is not as bad as everything else. Weed
is a background substance. I mean, you can smoke some herb
and still function. You ain't crisp...but
you'll function! Nothing higher than weed, though.
Tony Kaizen:
Alright. I wanna stop here and explain the term "background
substance". Background substance isn't a term we actually
use in daily speech. When Dave uses the term "background
substance", he's being funny and playing with the original
terms, which are "background music" and "background noise".
And these terms just describe the music or noise that can be
heard while doing some other activity. For example, you
might like having some background noise while you work
because it helps you focus. Or you might be eating at a
restaurant while they play some background music that's loud
enough to be heard but not loud enough to interrupt your
conversation. You see what I'm saying? It's just playing in
the background to create a nice atmosphere. Now, you
probably got this by using the context of the situation, but
just in case you didn't, the word "herb", h-e-r-b, in this
case, is slang for weed or marijuana. So you can smoke some
weed and still function.
Dave Chappelle:
I mean, you can smoke some herb and still function. You
ain't crisp...but you'll function.
Tony Kaizen:
In this context, when Dave says, "You ain't crisp", he's
basically saying that, "You're not sharp." And in this case,
the word "sharp" means having or showing speed of
perception, comprehension, or response. In other words, Dave
is saying, when you smoke weed, your brain is not operating
at peak capacity; you're not sharp; you can't respond
quickly; you might not always know what's going on, but at
least you can function. But with psychedelic mushrooms, it's
not like that.
Dave Chappelle:
And you ain't crisp...but you'll function.
Nothing higher than weed, though. I made that mistake one
time. I was at a party. Some guy gave me some shit. He's
like, "Here, man, take this. It's fucking mushrooms." I took
it.
I forgot all about it, you know? Then a couple of days
later, I found that shit in my pocket. I'm thinking, "Why
not?" Cos I'm thinking it's like weed, some background shit.
Tony Kaizen:
The English word "shit" has multiple meanings, but in this
case, it's being used to say "thing" or "stuff". So when he
says, "This guy gave me some shit," he's basically saying,
"This guy gave me something," right? And when he says, "A
couple of days later, I found that shit in my pocket," he's
saying, "A couple of days later, I found that thing in my
pocket." It's the same thing.
Dave Chappelle:
Cos I'm thinking it's like weed, some background shit. I
planned my whole day out like it was weed.
I'll chew this shit up, then I go to the barber shop, get my
hair cut, and then I'll see a movie.
Tony Kaizen:
The phrasal verb "to plan something out" basically means to
plan what you're going to do in the future, but carefully
and in detail. And you might be wondering, what's the
difference between "plan" and "plan out"? Well, in this
case, there's really no difference. "Plan out" is a more
colloquial way of saying the same thing. In some cases,
using the phrasal verb "to plan out" can imply that you plan
things in great detail. Right? More time and preparation
were needed to make your plan. But in this case, plan and
plan out are the same thing.
Dave Chappelle:
I planned my whole day out like it was weed. I'll chew this
shit up, then I'll go to the barber shop, get my hair cut,
and then I'll see a movie.
Tony Kaizen:
If you look in the dictionary, it'll tell you that the
phrasal verb "chew up" means to destroy. For example, "The
dog chewed up the furniture", meaning he destroyed the
furniture by chewing on it constantly. But in this case,
"chew up", it just means to chew thoroughly and swallow. So
Dave could have said, "I'll eat this shit, go to the barber
shop, and then I'll see a movie," and it would have been the
same exact thing. It would have had the same exact meaning,
you see?
And just like the phrasal verb "plan out", the phrasal verb
"chew up" is being used colloquially. And you might hear
someone say, "Eat up," which is just another way of
encouraging someone to eat and enjoy all of their food. Or
you might hear someone say, "Drink up," which is just
another way of encouraging someone to drink their entire
beverage. You see what I'm saying?
Dave Chappelle:
I'll chew this shit up, then I'll go to the barbershop, get
my hair cut, and then I'll see a movie. I
chewed it up. So far, so good. Then I was in the barbershop,
like an hour later.
Tony Kaizen:
"So far, so good." This phrase is used to say that progress
has been satisfactory up to now. In other words, we haven't
had any problems yet; everything seems to be okay.
Dave Chappelle:
Then I was in the barbershop, like, an hour later. And it's
funny cos I was just thinking to myself, I was like, "Oh,
*smack* *smack*, this stuff sucks!" Tastes like athlete's
foot. I feel sick, but I'm not really
high.
Tony Kaizen:
If something sucks, it means that it's very bad in terms of
quality and or performance. So if the drugs suck, that means
that the quality is low so the effects are not very strong.
Dave Chappelle:
"Oh, *smack* *smack* this stuff sucks!" Tastes like
athlete's foot. I feel sick, but I'm not really
high.
Tony Kaizen:
Athlete's foot is a fungal infection that usually starts
between your toes. So you can Google the term "athlete's
foot", see a picture of it, and then imagine what it would
taste like if you licked that foot. Dave is basically saying
that's what psychedelic mushrooms taste like.
Dave Chappelle:
"...tastes like athlete's foot." I feel sick, but I'm not
really high.
Tony Kaizen:
The word "high" in this case is probably the most common way
to say that someone is under the influence of drugs. So when
we drink alcohol, we get drunk. But when we consume any
other drug like things that we smoke or eat or inject, then
we get high.
Dave Chappelle:
I feel sick, but I'm not really high.
Then I looked in the mirror. I saw the barber's reflection,
man.
It looked like...it looked like a big penis was cutting my
hair. I freaked out!
Tony Kaizen:
"I freaked out!" If someone "freaks out" or if something
"freaks them out", they suddenly feel extremely surprised or
upset or angry or confused or even scared. So you can
imagine your reaction if you saw your barber turn into a
penis. Right? You'd probably freak out. You'd go crazy.
You'd be extremely scared or maybe surprised or something
like that.
Dave Chappelle:
It looked like a big penis was cutting my hair. I freaked
out! I started talking to myself, "Dave, calm down.
You're on drugs. This is what drugs do.
Okay, you know that there was no way...that a penis
can cut hair." And I started freaking out, man!
I just couldn't take it anymore.
Tony Kaizen:
"I just couldn't take it anymore." When someone says, "I
can't take it", it means that they're unable to endure or
tolerate some unpleasant, critical, harsh or abusive
treatment, whether it's physical or emotional; they just
can't stand it anymore or they can't take it anymore; they
cannot tolerate it anymore. So Dave was just overwhelmed by
all of the crazy shit he was seeing after eating the
mushrooms.
Dave Chappelle:
And I started freaking out, man! I just couldn't take it
anymore. I jumped out of the chair. Half my hair was cut, I
didn't (even) care!
I didn't. I just gave a barber a handful of money.
Tony Kaizen:
"I jumped out of the chair." The dictionary says "jump out"
means "to propel oneself upward over a distance in a single
quick motion or series of such motions". So all you need to
imagine here is someone quickly rising from a chair almost
in a jumping motion because they were freaked out or scared
by something they saw.
Dave Chappelle:
I jumped out of the chair. Half my hair was cut, I didn't
(even) care! I didn't. I just gave a barber a handful of
money.
Tony Kaizen:
In this context, a "handful" of something simply refers to a
quantity that fills the hand. So you might have a handful of
money. You might have a handful of candy. You might have a
handful of peanuts. It could be anything. And it just means
whatever you're holding is enough to fill your hand
completely.
Dave Chappelle:
I jumped out of the chair. Half my hair was cut, I didn't
(even) care! I didn't. I just gave a barber a handful of
money. It was weird - the balls opened up. Anyway, I...I ran
home, man.
I ran home as fast as I could.
Tony Kaizen:
The phrasal verb "open up" has multiple meanings, but in
this case, it means to open by separating. So this might be
weird to think about, but you can picture two balls side by
side, and when they open up, they separate and a hand comes
out of the space in the middle to receive the money. That's
basically what Dave was describing.
And the word, "anyway", in this context is being used to
resume a subject after an interruption. Right? Because Dave
was telling the story, then he got distracted by the part
about the balls, and then he said "anyway", and returned to
the original topic. You see what I'm saying?
Dave Chappelle:
It was weird - the balls opened up. Anyway, I...I ran home,
man.
I ran home as fast as I could. I was trippin! Trippin! I
looked at the clock. It was 02:42. I was like, "Damn, 02:42!
I gotta sober up. I've never been this high this early!"
Tony Kaizen:
To "sober up" means to become sober or to become less drunk
or less high, which is practically the same thing.
Dave Chappelle:
"...I gotta sober up. I've never been this high this early!"
I took a shower.
I was still high. I said, "Maybe music will do the trick!" I
listened to every CD I had.
I was still high.
"Exercise! That's what I'll do." I ran around the block four
times, still high. Took a nap, woke up, fucked up.
Tony Kaizen:
"Took a nap, woke up, fucked up." The phrasal verb "to wake
up" means to stop sleeping, and to be "fucked up" in this
context means to be intoxicated from drugs or alcohol. So
someone might say, "Man, I was so fucked up last night." And
that means that they were extremely intoxicated last night.
So in an attempt to sober up, Dave tried to take a nap, but
he woke up and he was still high. That's the idea you can
understand.
Dave Chappelle:
I ran around the block four times, still high. Took a nap,
woke up, fucked up.
I looked at the clock. It was 02:43! I said, "Goddamn!"
Tony Kaizen:
"Goddamn!" The phrase "goddamn" is used to express anger or
annoyance with someone or something. So after taking a
shower, listening to music, running around the block and
taking a nap, Dave was still fucked up. He was still high,
he was still intoxicated. So naturally he was annoyed and he
said, "Goddamn!" Right? Like, "Shit man, I'm still high? I
gotta find a way to sober up." You know what I'm saying?
That's the idea.
Dave Chappelle:
Took a nap, woke up, fucked up.
I looked at the clock. It was 02:43! I said, "Goddamn!"
Tony Kaizen:
Alright, my friend. As I always say, don't feel bad if you
still have trouble understanding every single word and
phrase in clips like this one. Comedy is almost a hundred
percent based on culture, and comedians use lots of slang
and expressions when they speak. So naturally, you'd have to
be extremely familiar with the language and culture to
understand everything one hundred percent of the time. The
most important thing for you to do is review lessons like
this one and start putting new words and phrases into
practice so you can really internalize their various
meanings and the different ways we use them in casual
speech. But that's it for now, my friend. Thank you so much
for your time and attention. I really hope you enjoyed this
episode. This is the Life in English podcast. I'm your host,
Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk to you in the next one. Peace!